README.rst, before:

Open edX License Manager plugin for Tutor
=========================================
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/hack.d-Lawrence%20McDaniel-orange.svg
  :target: https://lawrencemcdaniel.com
  :alt: Hack.d Lawrence McDaniel

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=discourse&label=Forums&style=flat-square&color=ff0080&message=discuss.overhang.io
  :alt: Forums
  :target: https://discuss.openedx.org/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=readthedocs&label=Documentation&style=flat-square&color=blue&message=docs.tutor.overhang.io
  :alt: Documentation
  :target: https://docs.tutor.overhang.io
|
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white
  :target: https://www.docker.com/
  :alt: Docker

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/kubernetes-%23326ce5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white
  :target: https://kubernetes.io/
  :alt: Kubernetes
|

.. image:: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40179672
  :target: https://openedx.org/
  :alt: OPEN edX
  :width: 75px
  :align: center

.. image:: https://overhang.io/static/img/tutor-logo.svg
  :target: https://docs.tutor.overhang.io/
  :alt: Tutor logo
  :width: 75px
  :align: center

|

Original plugin by Lawrence McDaniel. Updated and maintained by Cannon Smith for Tutor v16+ compatibility.

This is a plugin for `Tutor <https://docs.tutor.overhang.io>`__ that integrates the `License Manager <https://github.com/openedx/license-manager>`__ service in an Open edX platform.
License Manager provides supplmental e-commerce service such as monthly subscription payment options. For further instructions on how to setup License Manager with Open edX, check the `official License Manager documentation <https://github.com/openedx/license-manager/tree/master/docs/>`__.

This plugin provides the following build and deployment services:

- Docker-based License Manager software installation
- 1-click style Docker container build and push capability to your container repository, including setup of Python virtual environment and static asset collection
- automated MySQL integration, including creation and migration of the database itself, mysql service account and any permissions
- automated oauth setup using the LMS as the oauth provider
- fully automated Kubernetes deployment
- SSO-friendly routing that redirects ``/`` and admin login flows to LMS SSO
- management commands to create or promote License Manager superadmin users
- TO DO: add synchronization of MySQL user accounts

Installation and Usage
----------------------------

This plugin requires tutor>=14.0.5, the `Discovery plugin <https://github.com/overhangio/tutor-discovery>`__ and the `MFE plugin <https://github.com/overhangio/tutor-mfe>`__.
If you have installed Tutor by downloading the pre-compiled binary, then both the Discovery and MFE plugins should be automatically installed. You can confirm by running:

.. code-block:: shell

    tutor plugins list

Note that there's a helper script in the root of this repo, `tutor-build.sh <./tutor-build.sh>`__ that you can use as a guide for basic operations.

Linux & macOS command line
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    # install this repo to your Python virtual environment
    pip install git+https://github.com/lpm0073/tutor-contrib-license-manager

    # enable the plugin
    tutor plugins enable license_manager

    # build a Docker container
    tutor images build license_manager

    # configure this plugin
    tutor config save --set LICENSE_MANAGER_DOCKER_IMAGE="https://*******.dkr.ecr.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/license_manager:latest"  \
                      --set LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_DATABASE="schoolofrock-lm"  \
                      --set LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_PASSWOR="str0ng-@s-@n-0x"  \
                      --set LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_USERNAME="lm-admin"


Kubernetes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This plugins is compatible with `Kubernetes integration <http://docs.tutor.overhang.io/k8s.html>`__. When deploying to a Kubernetes cluster, run instead:

.. code-block:: shell

    tutor k8s quickstart


License Manager admin users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the bundled management commands inside the License Manager service to create or promote superadmins. Examples for local Tutor:

.. code-block:: shell

    # Create or update a superadmin (SSO-only login)
    tutor local run license-manager ./manage.py create_license_manager_superadmin \
        --username dev --email dev@example.com --no-password

    # Create a superadmin with a local password
    tutor local run license-manager ./manage.py create_license_manager_superadmin \
        --username licadmin --email licadmin@example.com --password 'SomeStrongPassword123'

    # Promote an existing SSO user after their first login
    tutor local run license-manager ./manage.py promote_license_manager_superadmin \
        --username dev --email dev@example.com

Omit arguments to be prompted interactively. In Kubernetes environments, replace ``tutor local run`` with the equivalent ``tutor k8s exec license-manager --`` command. Caddy now redirects ``/`` and the Django admin login flow to ``/login``, ensuring admin access always goes through LMS SSO.

Github Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


The following actions, available in the Github Actions Marketplace, offer seamless, secure integration with Kubernetes platforms running on AWS created with `Cookiecutter Tutor Open edX Production Devops Tools <https://github.com/lpm0073/cookiecutter-openedx-devops>`__

- `Build <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/open-edx-tutor-k8s-build-license-manager-plugin>`__: automated License Manager Docker container build and upload to AWS Elastic Container Registry
- `Deploy <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/open-edx-tutor-k8s-enable-license-manager-plugin>`__: automated License Manager deployment to AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service


Plugin Configuration
------------

Note this `Getting Started <https://github.com/openedx/license-manager/blob/master/docs/getting_started.rst>`__ guide from the License Manager repo.
The official READTHEDOCS link is broken, but you can generate the documentation locally:

.. code-block:: shell

    git clone git@github.com:openedx/license-manager.git
    cd license-manager/
    mkvirtualenv license-manager
    make requirements
    make doc_requirements
    cd docs/
    make html

License Manager uses `Waffle <http://waffle.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`__ for feature toggling and `Transifex <https://www.transifex.com/>`__ for internationalization.

Required parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- LICENSE_MANAGER_DOCKER_IMAGE (a URI to Dockerhub, AWS ECR, etcetera)

Optional parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- LICENSE_MANAGER_HOST (default: subscriptions.{{ LMS_HOST }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_DATABASE (default: license_manager)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_USERNAME (default: license_manager)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_PASSWORD (default {{ 8|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY (default: license-manager-key)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY_DEV (default: license-manager-key-dev)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY_SSO (default: license-manager-key-sso)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY_SSO_DEV (default: license-manager-key-sso-dev)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_SECRET_KEY (default: {{ 24|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET (default: {{ 16|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET_DEV (default: {{ 16|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET_SSO (default: {{ 16|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET_SSO_DEV (default: {{ 16|random_string }})

License
------------

This software is licensed under the terms of the AGPLv3.

Commit message:

fix: nameing plugin nameing and enterprise work added to init

README.rst, after:

Open edX License Manager plugin for Tutor
=========================================
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/hack.d-Lawrence%20McDaniel-orange.svg
  :target: https://lawrencemcdaniel.com
  :alt: Hack.d Lawrence McDaniel

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=discourse&label=Forums&style=flat-square&color=ff0080&message=discuss.overhang.io
  :alt: Forums
  :target: https://discuss.openedx.org/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/static/v1?logo=readthedocs&label=Documentation&style=flat-square&color=blue&message=docs.tutor.overhang.io
  :alt: Documentation
  :target: https://docs.tutor.overhang.io
|
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white
  :target: https://www.docker.com/
  :alt: Docker

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/kubernetes-%23326ce5.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=kubernetes&logoColor=white
  :target: https://kubernetes.io/
  :alt: Kubernetes
|

.. image:: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/40179672
  :target: https://openedx.org/
  :alt: OPEN edX
  :width: 75px
  :align: center

.. image:: https://overhang.io/static/img/tutor-logo.svg
  :target: https://docs.tutor.overhang.io/
  :alt: Tutor logo
  :width: 75px
  :align: center

|

Original plugin by Lawrence McDaniel. Updated and maintained by Cannon Smith for Tutor v16+ compatibility.

This is a plugin for `Tutor <https://docs.tutor.overhang.io>`__ that integrates the `License Manager <https://github.com/openedx/license-manager>`__ service in an Open edX platform.
License Manager provides supplmental e-commerce service such as monthly subscription payment options. For further instructions on how to setup License Manager with Open edX, check the `official License Manager documentation <https://github.com/openedx/license-manager/tree/master/docs/>`__.

This plugin provides the following build and deployment services:

- Docker-based License Manager software installation
- 1-click style Docker container build and push capability to your container repository, including setup of Python virtual environment and static asset collection
- automated MySQL integration, including creation and migration of the database itself, mysql service account and any permissions
- automated oauth setup using the LMS as the oauth provider
- fully automated Kubernetes deployment
- SSO-friendly routing that redirects ``/`` and admin login flows to LMS SSO
- management commands to create or promote License Manager superadmin users
- TO DO: add synchronization of MySQL user accounts

Installation and Usage
----------------------------

This plugin requires tutor>=14.0.5, the `Discovery plugin <https://github.com/overhangio/tutor-discovery>`__ and the `MFE plugin <https://github.com/overhangio/tutor-mfe>`__.
If you have installed Tutor by downloading the pre-compiled binary, then both the Discovery and MFE plugins should be automatically installed. You can confirm by running:

.. code-block:: shell

    tutor plugins list

Note that there's a helper script in the root of this repo, `tutor-build.sh <./tutor-build.sh>`__ that you can use as a guide for basic operations.

Linux & macOS command line
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: shell

    # install this repo to your Python virtual environment
    pip install git+https://github.com/lpm0073/tutor-contrib-license-manager

    # enable the plugin (plugin identifier uses an underscore)
    tutor plugins enable license_manager

    # build a Docker container (service/image identifier uses a hyphen)
    tutor images build license-manager

    # configure this plugin
    tutor config save --set LICENSE_MANAGER_DOCKER_IMAGE="https://*******.dkr.ecr.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/license_manager:latest"  \
                      --set LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_DATABASE="schoolofrock-lm"  \
                      --set LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_PASSWOR="str0ng-@s-@n-0x"  \
                      --set LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_USERNAME="lm-admin"

The Tutor CLI uses ``license_manager`` when referring to the plugin itself (for example, enabling/disabling it) and ``license-manager`` when referring to the running service, Docker image, or init tasks.


Kubernetes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This plugins is compatible with `Kubernetes integration <http://docs.tutor.overhang.io/k8s.html>`__. When deploying to a Kubernetes cluster, run instead:

.. code-block:: shell

    tutor k8s quickstart


License Manager admin users
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the bundled management commands inside the License Manager service to create or promote superadmins. Examples for local Tutor:

.. code-block:: shell

    # Create or update a superadmin (SSO-only login)
    tutor local run license-manager ./manage.py create_license_manager_superadmin \
        --username dev --email dev@example.com --no-password

    # Create a superadmin with a local password
    tutor local run license-manager ./manage.py create_license_manager_superadmin \
        --username licadmin --email licadmin@example.com --password 'SomeStrongPassword123'

    # Promote an existing SSO user after their first login
    tutor local run license-manager ./manage.py promote_license_manager_superadmin \
        --username dev --email dev@example.com

Omit arguments to be prompted interactively. In Kubernetes environments, replace ``tutor local run`` with the equivalent ``tutor k8s exec license-manager --`` command. Caddy now redirects ``/`` and the Django admin login flow to ``/login``, ensuring admin access always goes through LMS SSO.

Github Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


The following actions, available in the Github Actions Marketplace, offer seamless, secure integration with Kubernetes platforms running on AWS created with `Cookiecutter Tutor Open edX Production Devops Tools <https://github.com/lpm0073/cookiecutter-openedx-devops>`__

- `Build <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/open-edx-tutor-k8s-build-license-manager-plugin>`__: automated License Manager Docker container build and upload to AWS Elastic Container Registry
- `Deploy <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/open-edx-tutor-k8s-enable-license-manager-plugin>`__: automated License Manager deployment to AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service


Plugin Configuration
------------

Note this `Getting Started <https://github.com/openedx/license-manager/blob/master/docs/getting_started.rst>`__ guide from the License Manager repo.
The official READTHEDOCS link is broken, but you can generate the documentation locally:

.. code-block:: shell

    git clone git@github.com:openedx/license-manager.git
    cd license-manager/
    mkvirtualenv license-manager
    make requirements
    make doc_requirements
    cd docs/
    make html

License Manager uses `Waffle <http://waffle.readthedocs.org/en/latest/>`__ for feature toggling and `Transifex <https://www.transifex.com/>`__ for internationalization.

Required parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- LICENSE_MANAGER_DOCKER_IMAGE (a URI to Dockerhub, AWS ECR, etcetera)

Optional parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- LICENSE_MANAGER_HOST (default: subscriptions.{{ LMS_HOST }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_DATABASE (default: license_manager)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_USERNAME (default: license_manager)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_MYSQL_PASSWORD (default {{ 8|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY (default: license-manager-key)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY_DEV (default: license-manager-key-dev)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY_SSO (default: license-manager-key-sso)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_KEY_SSO_DEV (default: license-manager-key-sso-dev)
- LICENSE_MANAGER_SECRET_KEY (default: {{ 24|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET (default: {{ 16|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET_DEV (default: {{ 16|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET_SSO (default: {{ 16|random_string }})
- LICENSE_MANAGER_OAUTH2_SECRET_SSO_DEV (default: {{ 16|random_string }})

License
------------

This software is licensed under the terms of the AGPLv3.
